egetation hazard is one of the top causes of transmission lines power outages in Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) transmission grids. We used Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) approach to quantify the risk of failure of the transmission grid to support the wildfire mitigation planning and prioritization. The model assesses the expected failure risk given the environmental and assets conditions associated with past outage events due to vegetation from 2015-2022.The goal of the a MaxEnt model is to compare the statistical distribution of environmental conditions and asset characteristics associated with outage locations(i.e. Distribution of strike tree heights, conductor size, rainfall averages, fuel dryness etc) to the distribution associated with all the locations along the transmission grid, also called the background. The three categories of data relevant to modeling that process are: (i) asset attributes (ii) spatially varying environmental conditions, determined by location (iii) spatio-temporal varying weather conditions, determined by location and time. The model is trained and tested separately by computing the covariate importance and reviewing the predictive performance metrics. The iterative process was followed to select the best performing covariates. Strike tree covariates were the dominant covariates and  showed good performance for the test data and highlighted the areas of high risk in the past with AUC - area under the ROC (Receiver operating characteristics) value of 0.88. The model prediction is produced at the pixel level (100m by 100m spatial resolution) which is later transformed any planning unit sfor implementation of wildfire mitigation program. 


Vegetation hazards are a leading cause of power outages in Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) transmission grids. To support wildfire mitigation planning, we employed a Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) model to quantify the risk of transmission grid failures. The model evaluates the expected failure risk based on environmental and asset conditions associated with past vegetation-related outages from 2015-2022. By comparing the statistical distribution of these conditions at outage locations to those along the entire transmission grid, the model identifies high-risk areas.

Data for the model encompasses three categories: (i) asset attributes, (ii) spatially varying environmental conditions by location, and (iii) spatio-temporal weather conditions by location and time. The model undergoes iterative training and testing to determine the most significant covariates and assess predictive performance. Strike tree covariates emerged as dominant, demonstrating strong test performance and effectively highlighting high-risk areas with an AUC (area under the ROC curve) of 0.88. Predictions are produced at a 100m by 100m pixel resolution and are subsequently adapted for use in wildfire mitigation planning units.
